h1. Examples

In this section you will find a few examples of REST API usage.

# A Windows batch file of "curl" commands, that creates vertices and indices, but does not try to create edges (because of the need to reuse tuple IDs from previous API calls)
# A groovy script that repeats much of what the Windows batch file does, but creates a complete database of vertices, indices *and* edges.
# Some very simple suggested Gremlin commands, printed out by the Groovy script, that you can use to test your reults 

h2. Windows batch file

h3. Pre-requisites

* You'll need Rexster of course, started up as described "here":https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Command-Line
* You'll need to be sure your rexster.xml file enables Neo4j as described "here":https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Rexster-Configuration
* You'll need to install curl.  You get it from "http://curl.haxx.se/download.html":http://curl.haxx.se/download.html.  De-compress the zip to disk, add it to your Windows "path" environment variable and it should run with no difficulty.
* You'll need to install Groovy.  The script uses one Groovy operation <code>groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))"</code> for the purpose of displaying the HTTP Response data in an easily readable fashion.  You get it from "Codehaus":http://groovy.codehaus.org/Download and install it using their "guide":http://groovy.codehaus.org/Getting+Started+Guide.
* You'll need to edit your hosts file C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc\hosts and add a line for the imaginary server "aHost" used in the scripts below.  The IP address must be the same as the server IP address where you installed Rexster.

h3. Script

The script can be found "here":https://github.com/martinhbramwell/Rexster-Stuff/blob/master/Rexster-REST-API-Example_1.bat
Typing Rexster-REST-API-Example_1.bat on the windows command line should be sufficient to get the same results as show in the next section below. 

h3. Successful Result

When you run the script, you should get results as follows.  You will find the script in the next section.

bc. -----------------------------------------
.     ----[ Evacuate database ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sSX DELETE "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "queryTime": 262.494255
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
. ----[ Recreate index vertices ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -gsX POST "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?class=vertex&type=automatic&keys=[ID]"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "queryTime": 13.161729,
    "results": {
        "name": "vertices",
        "class": "com.tinkerpop.blueprints.pgm.Vertex",
        "type": "automatic"
    }
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
.      ----[ List indices ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": [
        {
            "name": "vertices",
            "class": "com.tinkerpop.blueprints.pgm.Vertex",
            "type": "automatic"
        }
    ],
    "totalSize": 1,
    "queryTime": 0.245282
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
.      ----[ Create deck ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=5&Type=Pack&Name=Deck of Cards" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 137,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Deck of Cards",
        "Type": "Pack",
        "ID": "5"
    },
    "queryTime": 21.224205
}

bc. .
-
--
---
.      ----[ Create suits ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=101&Type=Suit&Name=Diamond" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 138,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Diamond",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "101"
    },
    "queryTime": 14.430605
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=202&Type=Suit&Name=Heart" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 139,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Heart",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "202"
    },
    "queryTime": 12.442643
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=303&Type=Suit&Name=Spade" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 140,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Spade",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "303"
    },
    "queryTime": 15.684675
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=404&Type=Suit&Name=Club" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 141,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Club",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "404"
    },
    "queryTime": 31.377172
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
---
--
-
.
.
-
--
---
.       ----[ Create aces ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=1&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 142,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "1"
    },
    "queryTime": 11.767697
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=14&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 143,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "14"
    },
    "queryTime": 11.770491
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=27&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 144,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "27"
    },
    "queryTime": 11.557055
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=40&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 145,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "40"
    },
    "queryTime": 13.48272
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
---
--
-
.
.
-
--
---
.      ----[ Create kings ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=13&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 146,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "13"
    },
    "queryTime": 12.428674
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=26&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 147,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "26"
    },
    "queryTime": 20.65905
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=39&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 148,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "39"
    },
    "queryTime": 20.145577
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=52&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 149,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "52"
    },
    "queryTime": 18.390605
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
---
--
-
.
-----------------------------------------
.   ----[ Check an Ace vertex ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=40"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": [
        {
            "_id": 145,
            "_type": "vertex",
            "Name": "Ace",
            "Type": "Card",
            "ID": "40"
        }
    ],
    "totalSize": 1,
    "queryTime": 6.529881
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
.   ----[ Check a King vertex ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=52"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": [
        {
            "_id": 149,
            "_type": "vertex",
            "Name": "King",
            "Type": "Card",
            "ID": "52"
        }
    ],
    "totalSize": 1,
    "queryTime": 3.876749
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
* * * *  Some Notes on the Above  * * * *
-----------------------------------------
*
* This script creates vertices and indices, but
* does not try to create edges (because of the
* need to reuse tuple IDs from previous API calls).
*
* Most of the HTTP Response printouts above have a
* field {"results": {"_id": x, ...}.  Creating
* edges requires capturing two returned _id fields
* from created vertices and POSTing them as the
* _outV and _inV fields of an edge creation command,
* a task only a Microsoft zionist would want to
* attempt with MS-DOS batch commands.
*
* Instead please see the second example that uses a
* Groovy script to do all of the above and more (and,
* it is platform-independant, of course).
*
-----------------------------------------
*
* Created by Martin "Hasan" Bramwell as a miniscule
* contribution to the wonderful Tinkerpop tool set:
* http://www.tinkerpop.com/
*
* You should find a link to the latest version of
* this script somewhere on this page here:
* https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Basic-REST-API
*
-----------------------------------------
* EOF

h2. Groovy script

h3. Pre-requisites

This script has the same pre-requisites as the Windows batch file above.

h3. Script

The script can be found "here":https://github.com/martinhbramwell/Rexster-Stuff/blob/master/Rexster-REST-API-Example_2.groovy

Typing Rexster-REST-API-Example_2.groovy on the windows command line should be sufficient to get the same results as show in the next section below. 


h3. Successful Result

When you run the script, you should get results like this:

<pre>
<code>
-----------------------------------------
       ----[ Test connection ]----
-----------------------------------------
Got request status 200 from http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/
-----------------------------------------
      ----[ Evacuate database ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [version:0.4-SNAPSHOT, queryTime:261.80115]
-----------------------------------------
----[ Recreate the index "vertices" ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [name:vertices, type:automatic]
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ List indices ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [[name:vertices, type:automatic]]
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ Create suits ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [_id:460, _type:vertex, Name:Spades, UCFrag:160, UCBlack:♠, Type:Suit, ID:100, UCWhite:♤]
Response : [_id:461, _type:vertex, Name:Hearts, UCFrag:176, UCBlack:♥, Type:Suit, ID:200, UCWhite:♡]
Response : [_id:462, _type:vertex, Name:Diamonds, UCFrag:192, UCBlack:♦, Type:Suit, ID:300, UCWhite:♢]
Response : [_id:463, _type:vertex, Name:Clubs, UCFrag:208, UCBlack:♣, Type:Suit, ID:400, UCWhite:♧]
-----------------------------------------
  ----[ Create 56 card deck ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [_id:464, _type:vertex, Name:Minor Arcana Tarot, UCFrag:126976, Type:Deck, Id:1]
-----------------------------------------
  ----[ Create 52 card deck ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [_id:465, _type:vertex, Name:Western, UCFrag:126976, Type:Deck, Id:2]
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ Create cards ]----
-----------------------------------------
The Ace of Spades has value :
 -- 1 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 1 in the Western deck.
The Two of Spades has value :
 -- 2 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 2 in the Western deck.
The Three of Spades has value :
 -- 3 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 3 in the Western deck.
The Four of Spades has value :
 -- 4 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 4 in the Western deck.
The Five of Spades has value :
 -- 5 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 5 in the Western deck.
The Six of Spades has value :
 -- 6 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 6 in the Western deck.
The Seven of Spades has value :
 -- 7 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 7 in the Western deck.
The Eight of Spades has value :
 -- 8 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 8 in the Western deck.
The Nine of Spades has value :
 -- 9 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 9 in the Western deck.
             :
             :
             :
             :
             :
             :
The Ten of Clubs has value :
 -- 10 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 10 in the Western deck.
The Jack of Clubs has value :
 -- 11 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 11 in the Western deck.
The Knight of Clubs has value :
 -- 12 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
The Queen of Clubs has value :
 -- 13 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 12 in the Western deck.
The King of Clubs has value :
 -- 14 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 13 in the Western deck.
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ Finished ]----
-----------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------
Now, running the following eight commands on Gremlin
should obtain the results indicated below:

- - - - - - -

g.V{it.Name=="Western"}
western = g.v(253)  //  Be sure to use the same ID as returned by the preceding command.
western.Type
cardNames = []
cardValues = []
western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(4).Name >> cardNames
western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(6).Val >> cardValues
itrCards = cardNames.iterator();ii = 0;while(itrCards.hasNext()){println "The " + itrCards.next() + " of Spades has value " + cardValues.get(ii++) }

- - - - - - -

/*
 *
Gremlin 1.1-SNAPSHOT
         \,,,/
         (o o)
-----oOOo-(_)-oOOo-----
gremlin>  g.V{it.Name=="Western"}
==>v[ 253]

gremlin>  western = g.v(253)
==>v[ 253]

gremlin>  cardNames = []
==>

gremlin>  cardValues = []
==>

gremlin>  western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(4).Name >> cardNames
==>King
==>Queen
==>Jack
==>Ten
==>Nine
==>Eight
==>Seven
==>Six
==>Five
==>Four
==>Three
==>Two
==>Ace

gremlin>  western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(6).Val >> cardValues
==>13
==>12
==>11
==>10
==>9
==>8
==>7
==>6
==>5
==>4
==>3
==>2
==>1

gremlin>  itrCards = cardNames.iterator();ii = 0;while(itrCards.hasNext()){println "The " + itrCards.next() + " of Spades has value " + cardValues.get(ii++) }
==>The King of Spades has value 13
==>The Queen of Spades has value 12
==>The Jack of Spades has value 11
==>The Ten of Spades has value 10
==>The Nine of Spades has value 9
==>The Eight of Spades has value 8
==>The Seven of Spades has value 7
==>The Six of Spades has value 6
==>The Five of Spades has value 5
==>The Four of Spades has value 4
==>The Three of Spades has value 3
==>The Two of Spades has value 2
==>The Ace of Spades has value 1
gremlin>
*
*/
  
</code>
</pre>



bc. // ---------------------------------- o 0 o ---------------------------------------